In this lesson, we'll customize the navigation menu in the transparent header and create a copy of
it to be used on separate pages that need a text color change.
You'll assign the additional template to the pages that have a different color in the background to
make sure the contrast is readable through the transparency.
By the end of this video, you'll know how to create and assign different headers in the DV theme builder
to different pages or page types.
All right now, let's take a look at an issue that I mentioned in the last couple of lessons where if
we open up, well, two things will edit this menu, which I give you a challenge in the last lesson
so that it's a customized menu.
We can get rid of these blog categories right here.
But secondly, if we look at the packages page or any of those pages that have a light colored background,
you can see that this menu color doesn't really work that well unless you scroll, of course.
And so we can change that and make a conditional menu that only appears on certain pages and we can
define which pages those are using the theme builder in that customize global header that we have there.
I'll go to the home page right here.
It automatically selected and chose that menu that we just created as the primary menu right here.
But if you were enabling the visual builder now, if you're editing a page, this is one of the newer
features in DV.
Is that while the visual builder is open, if you do have a theme builder, header or footer area enabled,
it will give you the ability to go up to the top and enter edit that actual header template outside
of the theme builder interface itself.
And while you're viewing a page and so that solves the problem of being able to scroll while you're
looking at the header template.
So now I'm editing just the header template items that we saw in the theme builder before, but we're
inside of the visual builder while the site is visible.
And so while that works well right here, one thing we can do is just let's exit the visual builder
outside of that page and go to the packages page that has a light colored subheading right here.
Also, that about has a two to light of a color, doesn't it?
In the dropdown as well.
And so on this page, now we can enable the visual builder on the packages page.
And while that opens, then we can go ahead and highlight this green edit header template.
Since there's a header template present, we can go ahead and edit that now.
Of course, if we edit this menu and we make the color a little bit darker now, that will work on the
travel packages page, but it won't really work on the home page.
The landing page, any other page that has an image here with the transparent header.
And so like I mentioned, we're going to have to split this and have two different global headers that
work on maybe one for all the pages and a different one for the rest of the pages.
And so I'll show you how to define that right now.
If we look at let's just close that up now, changing out of editing the header template here and back
to the page, it just gives you a purple button where you can click Edit Post content here.
And if I just click right there anywhere, while that's highlighted, that brings me back down to where
I can edit all this content that's within the page body area.
And so I'm going to go ahead and exit that visual builder now, discard my changes there, and let's
just take the let's see travel packages.
Also, the team page has a light background, not the about page, the blog page as well, and the contact
page.
You see, these all have a light colored background.
And you know, it might be best to change the global header to a light background and then have just
a few pages that are defined as having a darker background where this light color works.
In any case, we're going to make a copy of this header template and then define which pages the changed
header template would be defined onto.
And so that will make more sense as we go ahead and look, let's go ahead and go into the theme builder
right here.
And what I can do is I'm going to take this global header and the whole default website template, and
I'm going to go ahead and click duplicate right here.
This is the little icon at the top left where it shows, you know, two items, one behind the other.
And so I've just duplicated that global header template, this whole default web site template, actually,
and I'm only using a global header inside of it.
But if I just change this to specific pages, I guess for now what I'll do is choose the pages that
have a light background.
And so I know that was the team page.
The shop page, I think, does the blog page, the contact, the about page.
And so for all five of these pages that have a light colored background, this is what I'm going to
edit right here.
So a click save.
And as you can see, when I duplicated this global header, it changed from a green color into a gray
color, which defines it as a non global item.
And since it is defined as, you know, working on certain pages where I can define that and reopen
it and change that is with the gear icon here, if you click that gear icon, that opens up the template
settings so that you can either use it on particular pages or you can exclude it from typical pages
or, you know, types of pages and specific pages.
But I was going to say you can also use it on not only specific pages, but on certain types of pages,
like all pages or children of specific pages where you can have a hierarchy of parent and child pages.
You can also do it on posts or certain types of posts like categories.
That's a really powerful way to define different ways that you display a header for certain categories
or even particular blog posts.
And then there's course archive pages, different custom post types like projects.
You might have a different header that you wanted to find on different kinds of pages.
You can really start to see the power of the template and theme builder here under Divij, where you
can use these different templates for different page types and different pages.
And so we're editing the template here.
Now this is one template, the default website template that you cannot delete.
Once you have one created.
But over here, there's the little trashcan icon and so you can actually delete this template.
You can make a copy of this template as well.
And here's where you'd label it for your own use.
If you do have a say, I made a copy of this template and I didn't define it as being used anywhere,
and I just close that.
What happens is this label turns red, and that's to let you know that it's not being used anywhere.
So this you might even keep.
Sometimes I've kept an unused template as a saved copy.
So this is just this is a backup of the global template.
I'll often keep a backup of the global template here, save my changes.
And so now that I've saved my changes, this backup is saved as well as a copy of the global header
and only define on certain pages right here.
So what is it?
It's on one two three four five different pages.
Use this template now.
If I make changes to this custom header, it will not affect the rest of the pages.
And so that's where I can go in here and hit the pencil icon.
And I can make you know now that it has a white background, I can go in here and I could say, OK,
the design of this menu for the text, I want it to be a darker color.
And so I don't want it straight black.
But what I might do is just to drag along the edge here down to where this is a little bit darker of
a gray color.
Now why isn't that changing what it looks like right over here?
And that may be because we're looking.
At the menu, text color right here, defined as if, if, if what was I changing the active link color?
And so the active link color, of course, we also need to be a visible color.
So if that's 04:07 repeated, let's go ahead and see about this one.
Oops.
Can just drag that around now.
It's changing, isn't it?
So if I make this a little bit darker, like all the way down to five six, then when the active page
you could see and when we roll over it, it changes slightly lighter and gets a nice rollover effect
there.
And so that's really all I need to change about that menu.
What about the logo right here?
This logo was defined as now.
Are we going to leave the sticky here?
We do want to leave the sticky to be a nice black, and I think that'll look nice.
We could have made this black as well so that it's visible in the later pages.
Or we could even make this sticky version a lighter if we want to.
For now, let's just leave the menu text color as we have it, and let's look at the logo and see what
changes we can make here.
So we have the logo, border image, etc. Now the image is inverted to a level of 90 percent because
I don't know what the original logo looks like in the media library.
But if I slide this back to zero, the image is a black image and so I can use image invert to change
that or even opacity if I brought that down.
That would kind of have the same effect, right?
But since they were using an image invert.
Anyway, let's bring this baby back to match image invert.
Match the color here that I have maybe 48.
I don't know.
About 30 40 percent maybe looks about right to me.
That looks pretty good.
And so when it's sticky, we'll leave it going back to its black with image invert being zero again
so that I can click the little save checkbox and down here, don't forget to save the whole page, which
in this case is just the header itself, and I'll click that close icon.
And because I hit the save at the bottom right now, it's showing me all changes saved up here.
And so now let's take a look.
If I'm on the about page here and I refresh, that shouldn't change anything.
This is the lighter color.
Look at that.
It did change it, didn't it?
And so let's see.
Let's look at home.
Yeah, it's the on home.
It's the lighter color on the about page that is the darker color.
It's the landing page.
No, where was it?
Oh, it's the packages, that's right.
So I think I have this backwards or something.
Let's make sure this is working.
Yeah.
So I need the packages page to be the darker color that I just made.
And so let's see.
I'll just change my settings here on specific pages.
Oh, I don't have the packages page selected.
And actually the about page is not something where I need the darker color.
I think I need just these five pages.
That's what the problem was.
So I just click Save now that I click Save under those changes here.
I still need to click save changes here or that won't be affected.
And so now if I refresh packages, there we go.
That's the darker color.
The rollover looks nice, and so does the sticky.
If I go to about, yeah, now it's the lighter color because there's an image right here that's great.
And if I look at packages was looking good, the contact was also a lighter page.
So now my menu is working great.
The home page and others like the about are not using this darker color that I changed, and that's
how you can do a dynamic and conditional second header layout for any types of pages or specific pages
that you have in the whole website.
Let's fix this real quick.
There's a dropdown where this is a white background and this is too light of a color for that text so
we can change that.
It be a good challenge for you to see if you can figure out where you change that if you want to pause
the video here right now and make that quick change.
So how'd that go?
If I go back to the header theme builder and change this global header, I'm going to have to change
it in both places for that dropdown ANA.
So if I click the little pencil icon here first under the global header, if I go under this menu module
settings, there's some elements here and under design I would go to the dropdown menu.
And here's where I could change either the background color, the line color or the menu text color
and the active.
And so what do you think would look better?
Maybe to keep this as a light color and change the lettering?
Or you could have change the background and kept the light colored lettering that might actually like
look pretty interesting.
So if I change the background color of the dropdown, often that looks nice when the background color
contrasts from the menu color itself.
And so maybe I'll bring the background color down to more of a gray.
Oh, that looks quite nice.
Maybe I'll even bring it a little bit darker.
Yeah, and a light colored lettering looks pretty good, I think I'll go maybe up a little bit darker
and then the text color looking good, they're the active link color.
If that were active in the rollover looks good too, and that looks great.
So what happens when the menu is sticky and I roll over?
Ah, so when the menu is sticky for the drop down, I'm going to change that to white so that that looks
good in the darker color.
And so let's see if I go to the dropdown menu.
Text color.
Of course, that's the in sticky mode right here and there.
There's where I just hit the push pin, which is sticky that opened up the menu text color.
Now I can change that to be a lighter color.
And so I'll go down here and just make that white.
So how's that going to look?
That looks real nice.
OK, so I'll click the checkbox here.
Now, of course, if I don't click this button down here and then save when I click here, it'll tell
me, OK, do I want to save and exit or what?
Yes.
And now it says all changes saved right here.
I can go up here and do a refresh now as my menu working everywhere.
Yeah.
And even if I scroll, the dropdown is working well, in addition.
So that looks nice.
Yeah.
But even on a on a light background, that dropdown is a nice big gray square.
It's good, in contrast.
Yeah, that's that's looking really good.
It also works on a light colored background, the dropdown as well.
Now, for a light color background, as you remember, I did not change the other.
Remember, I said you had to edit both of these.
Since this is green, it only affects the ones that are affected by this.
Now these this other all these five pages that are selected right here are excluded from that global
header.
And so let's go ahead and do the same edit that we did over here.
So I could go over here and let's actually before I do that.
Let's see if I can try something here.
Let's go ahead and click the three little buttons that a place.
Now there is a spot where you can copy.
Let's see if this will let me do it.
You know what it'll do if I go up here to this menu and I right click the three dots, I could say,
copy the module styles and then go back out of this green header.
And now let's edit the custom header and again, go to this header module right here.
And if I copy the styles over, it's actually going to overwrite all the styles, including the color
here.
So I don't want to do that, but that's something that you can use in the future.
You can go copy styles and then paste styles, and that will change it and match everything from one
side to the other.
That's not what I want to do right now.
When I want to do is change the settings and look at doing the dropdown settings right for it.
So the design under dropdown menu, I want to bring that to a certain color and what I want to do is
really match it.
So I need to back out of here again, discard the changes here.
What I want to do is look for that gray color.
I want to remember the gray, the two gray colors that I had here.
So under design dropdown menu, the background color itself with 6GB, 6GB, 6GB, that's not hard to
remember.
And then the text color.
Here we go, the the is this.
Let's see, I remember first, I'll do that 6B.
The menu, background color and then the menu text color.
Oh, it's just white, I believe.
Yeah, that was just white.
So 6b, that's what I need to remember.
Just close this.
Discard an exit exit and save my changes.
Oftentimes, I'll just paste the color into a notepad document or something like that.
But now I want to change my drop, my my, the background of my drop down.
And then make the text white, so let's go design dropdown menu.
Here's the dropdown menu background color.
Add a color right here I can just type.
Six B six b six b.
It will add the little no sign there for the Hex color.
Click the checkbox.
Now I have that and we ought to make the lettering white.
So dropdown menu text color can actually just click white right here and click Save and click Save.
Here we go now, I've edited that so that it's going to work everywhere I can close that, make sure
all changes are saved.
Now let's go back and on these customized pages where we have the custom white background menus, the
backgrounds, I mean, the dropdowns, excuse me, are the correct color and they even work for the
sticky version.
Awesome.